Question: Electricity causes less damage to the Earth's atmosphere than (A) Gasoline (B) Potatoes (C) The sun (D) Water
Answer: A
Premise: Burning gasoline releases pollutants.
Premise: Pollutants damage the Earth's Atmosphere.
Conclusion: Electricity causes less damage to the Earth's atmosphere than Gasoline.

Question: If a river is rushing southwest on a sunny day, then it is safe to assume that (A) southwest is a good place to be (B) the land gently inclines in that direction (C) the world is mostly land (D) the land is supple
Answer: B
Premise: Water flows from a high point to a lower point.
Premise: The direction of a river is the incline of the land.
Conclusion: If a river is rushing southwest on a sunny day, then it is safe to assume that the land gently inclines in that direction.

Question: Using a metal kitchen tool on a cheese can create (A) milk (B) blue cheese (C) melted cheese (D) small pieces
Answer: D
Premise: Metal kitchen tools can cut food into small pieces.
Premise: Cheese can be easily cut with metal kitchen tools.
Conclusion: Using a metal kitchen tool on a cheese can create small pieces.

Question: Poison causes harm to which of the following? (A) a Tree (B) a robot (C) a house (D) a car
Answer: A
Premise: Poison causes harm to living things.
Premise: A tree is a living thing.
Conclusion: Poison causes harm to a Tree.

Question: There is most likely going to be fog around: (A) a marsh (B) a tundra (C) the plains (D) a desert
Answer: A
Premise: Fog forms in areas with high moisture.
Premise: A marsh has high moisture levels.
Conclusion: There is most likely going to be fog around a marsh.

Question: Predators eat (A) lions (B) humans (C) bunnies (D) grass
Answer: C
Premise: Predators hunt and eat other animals.
Premise: Bunnies are animals that predators hunt.
Conclusion: Predators eat bunnies.

Question: Oak tree seeds are planted and a sidewalk is paved right next to that spot, until eventually, the tree is tall and the roots must extend past the sidewalk, which means (A) roots may be split (B) roots may begin to die (C) parts may break the concrete (D) roots may fall apart
Answer: C
Premise: Tree roots grow and expand as the tree matures.
Premise: Expanding roots can push up and break through concrete surfaces.
Conclusion: Oak tree seeds are planted and a sidewalk is paved right next to that spot, until eventually, the tree is tall and the roots must extend past the sidewalk, which means parts may break the concrete.

Question: As the rain forest is deforested the atmosphere will increase with (A) oxygen (B) nitrogen (C) carbon (D) rain
Answer: C
Premise: Trees absorb carbon dioxide and store carbon.
Premise: Deforestation reduces the number of trees, releasing stored carbon into the atmosphere.
Conclusion: As the rain forest is deforested the atmosphere will increase with carbon.

Question: The main component in dirt is (A) microorganisms (B) broken stones (C) pollution (D) bacteria
Answer: B
Premise: Dirt is primarily composed of mineral particles.
Premise: Mineral particles come from broken stones and rocks.
Conclusion: The main component in dirt is broken stones.

Question: It's easier for human's to survive in: (A) a cave (B) the ocean. (C) a town ( D) alone
Answer: C
Premise: Towns provide access to resources like food, water, and shelter.
Premise: Towns offer social support and services that aid in survival.
Conclusion: It's easier for human's to survive in a town.

Question: A cactus stem is used to store (A) fruit (B) liquid (C) food (D) spines
Answer: B
Premise: Cactus stems store water to help the plant survive dry conditions.
Premise: Water is a liquid.
Conclusion: A cactus stem is used to store liquid.

Question: The summer solstice in the northern hemisphere is four months before (A) May (B) July (C) April (D) October
Answer: D
Premise: The summer solstice in the northern hemisphere occurs in June.
Premise: Four months after June is October.
Conclusion: The summer solstice in the northern hemisphere is four months before October.

Question: which of these would stop a car quicker? (A) a wheel with wet brake pads (B) a wheel without brake pads (C) a wheel with worn brake pads (D) a wheel with dry brake pads
Answer: D
Premise: Dry brake pads provide better friction against the wheel.
Premise: Better friction allows for quicker stopping of the car.
Conclusion: A wheel with dry brake pads would stop a car quicker.

Question: The chance of wildfires is increased by (A) parched foliage (B) torrential rain (C) lush foliage (D) careful fire maintenance
Answer: A
Premise: Parched foliage is dry and highly flammable.
Premise: Dry and highly flammable vegetation increases the likelihood of wildfires.
Conclusion: The chance of wildfires is increased by parched foliage.

Question: Overpopulation can cause (A) More fresh water for people to drink (B) Lower Life Expectancy in Countries (C) More food for more people (D) More space for places to people to live
Answer: B
Premise: Overpopulation strains resources such as food, water, and healthcare.
Premise: Strained resources can lead to lower life expectancy in countries.
Conclusion: Overpopulation can cause Lower Life Expectancy in Countries.

Question: If you were attacked by a shark and had to punch it sharply where it pulls in air from, you'd use your hand to make contact with (A) its snout (B) its gills (C) its nose (D) its belly
Answer: B
Premise: Sharks use their gills for respiration.
Premise: Respiration is pulling air into the body.
Conclusion: If you were attacked by a shark and had to punch it sharply where it pulls in air from, you'd use your hand to make contact with its gills.

Question: What system is needed for a body to get its needed supply of the gas humans breathe in? (A) the circulatory system (B) the digestive system (C) the school system (D) central nervous system
Answer: A
Premise: The gas humans breathe in and need for survival is oxygen.
Premise: The circulatory system transports oxygen throughout the body.
Conclusion: The circulatory system is needed for a body to get its supply of the gas humans breathe in.

Question: When it's flying, a plane has no friction with the (A) wings (B) ground (C) air (D) clouds
Answer: B
Premise: Friction occurs when two surfaces are in contact.
Premise: A plane in flight is not in contact with the ground.
Conclusion: When it's flying, a plane has no friction with the ground.

Question: To grow plants require (A) acid rain (B) pesticides (C) shafts of sunlight (D) moonbeam rays
Answer: C
Premise: Plants use photosynthesis to grow.
Premise: Shafts of sunlight provide the light energy necessary for photosynthesis.
Conclusion: To grow plants requires shafts of sunlight.

Question: What is the best way to guess a babies eye color? (A) The surroundings they are born in. (B) Their parents usual diet. (C) Just take a random guess. (D) The genealogy records of their family.
Answer: D
Premise: Eye color is inherited genetically.
Premise: Genealogy records can show the eye colors of the baby's ancestors.
Conclusion: The best way to guess a babies eye color is the genealogy records of their family.